Accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brasislavali citizens.
First National Bank, first always.
Hello and welcome to Veteran to the Valley.
I'm Tom Terbivill.
Cal Boykin was born in New Mexico.
He grew up in Big Spring, Aggie Class of 1946.
But like many, his actual graduation came after his World War II service as a proud member
of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion following Patton's Third Army through France and Belgium
and Holland.
Today we continue our visit with Sergeant Cal Boykin of College Station.
Cal is wonderful to have you back and just sort of by review for the people who might have
missed last week and I'm sorry that they did 814th Tank Battalion.
Again you grew up in Big Spring, you went to ANM, you went into the service, you thought
you were going to be in the air corps but that got changed and you had your training
at Camp Hood and also at Camp Oak.
Talk just a little bit about the Tank Battallions, what they were and sort of what your missions
were.
They were really Tank Destroyer Battallions and they looked like tanks and if you watch
any documentary about a third of those that you see or tank destroyer rather than tanks.
Right.
So we've often said if we had a coaxial camera there showing the rounds where we would
knock out a tank that would be more popular than the 8th Air Force.
It didn't work out.
Exactly.
But anyway we were to destroy tanks, the Doctor and Caller for Solid, being reserved and
move up and hit that big task force, a big frontal attack by all these heavy tanks.
But it didn't work out that way.
The Germans began to use fewer tanks, they had fewer tanks and they used combined arms,
infantry and artillery and tanks and then air if they had it.
So we had to be integrated into infantry divisions or armored divisions.
In our case we were integrated into the 7th armored division after we landed in France.
We talked last week about that you went over to England, you were trained at Packington Park
and then you went over landed at Utah Beach Normandy about two months after D-Day.
Take us from there and your push it was a rather quick push because you were following
Patten and he was always in a hurry and you pushed through France and Holland and Belgium
and on the Indian Germany.
Well in fact we went through the old World War I battlefields.
Our division took Chateau Therry for done until we ran out of gas, out ran the supply.
So we had enough diesel for our M10s that is our tank destroyers but we couldn't go
into the loan.
So we had this rest just for a little while and this is when a truck showed up and took
us over to one of the cemetery at Saint Mehill, American cemetery from World War I.
We visited and viewed it almost and it was kept just like you see it today probably,
you know, nicely mowed and green and all that.
Right.
And then we visited a trench of bayonets with a trench that cave down on these French emperors
before they went over the top and the bayonets still stick there.
Wow.
Now I didn't see that person but others in my group did.
I didn't see that.
You were a sergeant on an M8 armored car, a 37 millimeter gun, 30 caliber machine gun.
I want to go to August the 18th I believe it was and a task force mission that you told
me about.
Talk about that.
Well we were a combat command A of the 7th armored order desk forward to take Rambole.
Now there was another college station man turned out later, Colonel Vernon Files.
He was a lieutenant.
He took another task force but we went on the right hand side and he went on the left
hand side and the big wall surrounding the Rambole castle, the summer home of the French
presidents, you know.
Right.
We never saw the castle because we were worried what happened because some of the cavalrymen
had been ambushed there the day before and a number of were killed.
And one of the cavalrymen hollered up to us, what's that 88?
And sure enough it's firing.
Mr. Spy inches hit the wall.
We backed into the wall.
Of course I was trying to get to see where it is, where is that gun?
It fired again and I saw it.
That I don't think was 88.
Everybody thought all guns were 88s but it was probably 75 maybe.
But it just traveled like a torpedo across that dusty fellow field and came right underneath
us and went out through the wall.
Well I took aim and back ready to fire and Marvin Moser, the driver of Lieutenant Fukers
just ahead of mine, came back and he was in the site so I had to pull back and by that
time I'd lost any way of being accurate so I just fired.
And of course the arm repeating shell with a tracer you can see about 30 feet over.
But at least it gave us time to get out the line of fire.
They fired a couple more times but they were wild.
And I went back there, Rosemary and I did, 97.
And there was an American Eagle monument to all the soldiers who were killed.
I think there were nine and all at that ambush.
And one was a pilot and I had seen that P-47 Thunderbolt go down.
Flames coming out of the cow like I can see the pilot in just a clear day.
He seemed to be unconscious and it crashed.
Well the French took care of the body until the grave registration people could show.
Francois, Rosemary history of liberation of Rampilae and she managed to get people to
come and for one of the ceremonies they have two or a year, one on D-Day and one on
Liberation Day of Rampilae.
And then included in that group was a sister at the pilot who was playing and I had seen
go down.
And later on she was ill and oil.
She was down in the valley for the winter.
She and her husband and I visited and we had quite a little session.
I was the first person she had talked to who had members seeing the playing go down.
Wow.
And if there was any consolation all I could say was I think he'd ever do you what happened
for me.
He was probably important for her to know.
That must have been an amazing experience for her to meet you.
Indeed.
But there are a lot of quenchedness in this business.
Indeed there is.
I want to tell you what we're going to do right now.
I want to go to some photographs right now because I've got a lot more than I want to
talk to you about your service.
But I want to go to some photographs.
Some of the ones we saw last week so this will be by review and we'll go ahead and go
to those right now.
We saw this one last week.
We'll do it again for people who didn't see the show last week.
This was taken at Camp Hood.
Is that right?
Right.
Norah Camp Hood.
And that's the patch of your unit.
The seven means attached to the seventh armoured division.
Right.
Okay.
Let's move on to the next photograph.
That was in Belgium near Spav.
Right after I got out of the field hospital with a hand infection.
Right hand was pretty bad shape.
Right.
And this was the kind of weather that you hear people talk about at the Battle of the
Bulge.
Right.
And this was the kind of snow that was it.
And this was like in February.
Right here.
Okay.
Let's move on.
This was the book that we talked about last week.
The book about tanks where that is actually a replacement tank that you found yourself on.
You're in that picture.
You're there in the top turret with the helmet sort of looking at the camera.
And you didn't even know this picture had been taken until it showed up on the cover of
the book.
Right.
Well, we were looking pretty serious and pretty cold.
Exactly.
But that we were on a recon mission and probably one of the first after we had pulled out
of St. Vic.
St. Vith was the major stumbling block that the Germans had to get over if they could.
And anyway, we of Task Force Jones, we came out.
I lost my armored car in the crash of the ice.
And we were trying to set it on fire.
It didn't work.
And the German tank came up and finished the job and we left.
Let's move on to the next picture because here's some new.
Will Rogers Jr. was a member of the 814th.
He was the same unit that you were in.
And talk about him because he is somebody that you profile in your book.
This is the son of the great American humorous Will Rogers.
Well, of course, he earlier had been elected to Congress.
He had been in the Army, had a commission.
He was serving, I think, at Camp Hood in the training center.
But he was elected.
And then he resigned his commission, went into Congress.
Now Congress, he worked on the soldiers' voting bill.
And then he did some other things about trying to bring the Jews of Eastern Europe into
the US using Jewish money.
And those two bills completely failed.
And it didn't have the support from the State Department.
I don't know what all.
But anyway, he was demoralized, I gather, because that was when he resigned his seat in
Congress.
And joined us while we were in England.
He joined the 814th Enricoan Company commanding the 1st of June.
I was in the 2nd, but then.
He later became an actor, as a matter of fact, played his father in many movies and also
was in television.
I'm old enough to remember him when he was in television.
He's quite a resemblance to his dad, of course, also.
Let's move on to the next picture.
We'll talk more about Will Rogers later.
This is a reunion picture.
You are the 3rd from the right or 4th from the left, whichever way you want to count.
And I will say that you are a larger man back then.
I think so.
You're looking quite trim right now.
I'll tell you that.
Talk about this reunion picture and where it was taken.
Well, this was in Savannah, Missouri.
And we didn't have reunion, it's up until about, oh, I guess, 18 years ago.
And then we had one every year.
And believe it or not, they were organized and formed.
The addresses were found and what not, notifications by the second section sergeant, Carol Christmas.
And I was the other sergeant of second, he held the reunions.
I wrote the book.
These two monkeys, we did our best for the 814.
I know these were all great reunions.
And these pictures are all in your book.
Let's move on.
I think we've got some more pictures.
This is a picture that was taken at Camp Hood.
When was this taken?
And this is you standing in front of an M.A.
Armored Car.
Oh, this has been, oh, I guess, a number of years ago, probably 20 years ago.
Right.
It was the first Cavalry Museum, I believe.
And the Tanker's Story Museum artifacts are in the 4th Infantry Museum now.
And there are some vehicles, the M18, the M10 and the 2M10s.
Right.
That was your vehicle there.
You knew everything about that.
Here's you in Rosemary at one of the reunions.
Where was that taken, do you recall?
That would have been in 95, I believe, because that's when it broke the book to distribute
it.
When you wrote the book, Rosemary, your wife was 61 years.
Right.
Quite a career that she had also.
We'll talk about her and your family a little bit later on.
See if we have any more.
Nope, that's it.
That's all the photographs.
I wanted to get those and get the people to see those because there are some other stories
that I want you to tell.
I want to make sure that you have time to tell this whole story because I think it's
just a fascinating story.
I want you to talk about, I'm just going to let you take it.
I want you to talk about Annie and Theo.
Okay.
When we moved from Metz with the Third Army, we transferred up to Holland with the Ninth Army
and then with the Second British Army.
We were camped just outside of the Maustricht.
The Maustricht is an old Roman city.
It's probably the oldest city in the Holland.
Right in and it's very south.
Belgium, on the border, Germany over here.
It's a little different part of Holland, but it's a fine city.
We got word that they were going to, the girls, even the speaking girls of Maustricht, were
going to hold a dance for Seventh Armored Boys.
Well I went to the dance.
Most of my petun and people on you were married and they didn't care about this sort of thing
at that time.
So I went and I visited last week that the whole, the Grand Theater, where where the dance
was held.
Mirrors on the wall, Shandle Leaves.
I had washed my clothes in gasoline and getting ready to go and here I showed up in that
environment it was completely different.
And here was Annie and her blood dress and so on.
I danced with her.
Dance with her probably all evening and then she asked me to come and visit her.
And her family, her family mother and father, two brothers and her father was a chef.
I can relate to that being a hotel.
And we had a lot of things to talk about.
Her mother was German, but she talked to me constantly and made me understand what she
wanted.
She was a quite a lady.
But I almost missed her because the way she gave 31, I thought it was 37, you know, how
they make a one.
And I almost missed her and a couple of GIs and said, well that's 31, not 37.
So I went back and say, anyway, had the wrong address.
And we visited quite a lot of them several times.
I'd get to Leaves and then we were gone.
And when we were called back down into the bulls on the 17th of December, why I thought
we were going to go through Mastery, not bail out and go see anybody.
But it didn't work out that way.
But I did visit her a number of times because after the war, we were in occupation.
The 7th Army went home.
Hasbrook took his division home, left us in occupation.
And I was taking a group to Brussels for on leave.
We stopped at the railway station in Egypt.
I looked, I said, come.
I'll see you boys in Brussels.
And so I have this with Annie.
And then I've run a few of them with them a couple of days later or so.
But she was engaged to Thiel Romans.
This was Annie Sanders, Thiel Romans.
She was an engineer, a safety engineer for the Dutch state mines in Hellen, just north.
And we used to go up to Hellen for showers at least a couple of times in the mines.
But I never met him.
But he was an individual.
He was talented.
He played his guitar.
He was there at the Liberation of Mastery on the 14th of September.
Had American help with him.
I had a picture.
He's as is American hill.
His twin sister is sitting there in a jeep with some GI.
So you hadn't met him, but you had something in common.
That was Annie.
That's right.
And he always reminded me, says, I want.
But of course, I started telling you four on assignments.
And when that happened, while we were able to come back through in 1970, we had our first
visit with both Annie and Thiel.
And it went well because we toured the Peele-Marsheri in Holland where we fought.
And we toured our dens where we fought.
The St.Vit, the Salam-Shattoe, where I lost my arm in the car and dealed with them.
And I was there last week.
And we laid a few rees and so on.
It's interesting.
Your daughter and emailed me this, talking about this.
And she wrote, Theo knew of the attraction, but stayed in the background, also feeling
a sense of debt to the soldiers.
So although he knew of the attraction, it was...
Well, see, Theo, when they close the mines down, he became the puppy's relations officer
for the city.
Now, that's a pretty responsible job because the queen comes and he makes the arrangements.
And then, as he said, the GI has come and they want to...
Well, whatever happened to Helka.
He says, well, Helka, I don't know, but she didn't know.
He'd help face down these and then here comes Boykin.
Where is Annie?
Right.
But anyway, he had a good sense he was.
And this was all before you met Rosemary.
And after you and Rosemary got married, the remarkable thing about this is that you
all became friends.
That's right.
We stayed friends.
We made couples.
Right.
Now, sadly, Theo passed away at 99 or two brothers that passed away and one son had.
But talk about, before he passed away, what happened in 1989 involving the show Good Morning
America?
That's right.
Good morning America show came to Holland.
I don't know where else they were going, but they interviewed Captain with the 30th
O'Hicks Resolution, which liberated Master and they interviewed Theo.
Well, Theo, they would say, well, what a duveless time it was, everybody singing, dancing
and everything.
But Theo, no, he looked so much to the trucks bringing the bodies to Margaret and Cemetery
for burial.
And he had a few things to say about that.
And he was very serious about these things.
And he said, infantrymen never smiled.
He never saw.
He said, these others, even yourself, you smile every day.
And but one thing I might mention is in 1976, anyway, I'll continue this.
They asked him, well, are you still in touch with Americans?
Oh, yeah.
Calvin Roosevelt Boykin, Colin station, Texas, 814, Texas.
And we got a tape of that because by sudden Clay called Phoenix and they taped it over there
because an hour later and we have a copy of it.
Yeah.
You and your wife are out of the country at the time of this, but your family had seen
it because they were at your father's funeral in Austin at the time.
That's right.
They had seen it that day and the grandchildren were like, what are you talking about, Cal?
I'm not, I'm not, Grandpa, I'm Cal.
You know, that irritates some of our group.
But they got to worry about it.
The Bostrick boys would take a torch and run it for Normandy all the way to Bostrick on
September the 14th, they would arrive and they would light that flame.
And so in the 76, they flew to Washington, let that torch and ran it down to Washington,
and they put it on the steps of the Capitol in honor of our bicentennial.
Wow.
And then the ethereal came, visited us, I picked him up in Houston.
I took him to the San Jacinto Battlegrounds.
I said, this is where the revolution was fought.
Right.
The real revolution.
I want you to talk about after your service and you came back to the United States and
your beautiful wife, Rosemary, because when you met her and how that developed in 61
years you've been married now.
I started back to the idea of it ranging from forestry.
And I was sophomore Rosemary, senior at SMU.
She was going to become a medical artist and she had combined things there in such a way
that she could do that.
And then she belonged to the sororities, she had a big function going on.
My good friend in medical school, my good friend from Rochelle, his wife, his girlfriend,
what would become his wife, but she was in medical school and a good friend of Rosemary's.
And she insisted on both of them that we double date that night.
That I'd be a blind date.
Well, Rosemary's aunt came along and made sure this happened thanks to her Rosemary and
I met.
And we dated every weekend, I guess you could say, that sunbeam, I ought to have stock in
that.
Right.
But we met in March, we married 30th of June.
Wow.
And then she helped me graduate.
She worked for Oceanography Department.
Right.
And for several years.
Evans Library, I think.
And the library.
And Spacecraft Oceanography.
And as we mentioned, I believe in the last show, she's published her own history of
Razzis Valley Italians.
Right.
That's right.
In honor of her own heritage.
Right.
And their history of her family.
And as she did a tape of all the ships that left Palermo, Sicily, with Italians landed
in New Orleans.
Now, all the Italians from here, practically, came, their predecessors came from New Orleans
over here.
And many of their names were owned, the ship's logs.
Well, those may be recorded all of those, for out of RAM, any ships and for out of many
years, but a lot of them.
And put them on tape.
All right.
CD.
And so she's been, they still say, birds of passage, she calls it.
Birds of passage.
Yeah.
And you have four children, seven grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
Right.
And I know that you're proud of your whole family.
That's right.
It's been something.
It has been.
Your career, I wish we had a whole other show to talk about your post-military career,
but obviously it involved a lot of travel.
Right.
For ten years, you all spent most of that ten years outside.
We were two years in Syria.
And four years in Botswana, four years in Lissuti, both of those in southern Africa.
And then I had some short term assignments, three months or so.
And then they're on, Pakistan, Somalia, and Ecuador, and Yemen.
And I kind of get upset.
Nobody asked me to take a consultancy or anything.
Eventually, you retired from the Texas Agricultural Extension Service at Texas.
That's right.
Because I had worked for them and I had worked for the experience station earlier.
And I had enough time to retire.
And then also USDA, USDA, economic research service.
And I was posted in Ag Economics Department most of the time here.
When you look back at your career and you sort of sum it up in your mind and your thoughts,
obviously, you're proud of your service and proud of the people you served with.
And I've always liked to keep in touch.
Obviously.
And people I know that I've had, it was friendships, I've values.
We've had South Africans visit us here from the Orange Free State, University of Orange Free State.
Two different couples have come and visited with us.
And Cal Boykin, I want to thank you for your service.
We are out of time.
Like I said, we can get invited.
Well, I appreciate it.
I've been a lot of time, but you've had a remarkable life.
Okay.
And thank you.
And Cal Boykin's service, both as a gunner, aboard his M8 Armored Car and his post-World
War II civilian service is the kind of stuff of which our community can be forever proud.
We salute him for his service as we salute all veterans.
I'm Tom Terpaville.
Please join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
I'll always remember this one.
This will be good.
This is a great book.
All right.
Okay.
Let's look at that camera.
Here we go.
This is actually the same.
Cal, this is the same one as last time.
I'm going to do it for you again.
So you'll have it on the same screen.
Okay.
Actually, I think it's a little bit different.
Anyway, here we go.
The 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion was attached to Patton's Army during the Allies' final push
through Europe at the end of World War II.
And college stations, Cal Boykin, was a gunner riding high on an M8 Armored Car, a historian
and author, a soldier.
We will wrap up our visit with Cal Boykin on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 830,
Saturday and Sunday at 630 right here on KAMU TV.
Okay.
Good.
The 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion was attached to Patton's Army during the Allies' final push
through Europe at the end of World War II.
And college stations, Cal Boykin, was a gunner riding high on an M8 Armored Car, a historian
and author, a soldier.
We wrap up our visit with Cal Boykin on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 830, Saturday
and Sunday at 630 right here on KAMU TV.
He's going to give us a final.
Everything's okay.